(upbeat music)
There's a type of deep wisdom that
comes from the heart of the Russian spirit.
One that knows pain, and particular, knows laughter.
Leonid Sharashkin came into contact
with the book titled, The Art of Soaring
at a time when he needed some serious emotional adjustment.
He found the work to be profound, and chose
to bring the book to the English speaking world,
just as he did with Anastasia,
which he also continues to this day.
I completed the translation of all nine
volumes in the Ringing Cedar series.
And now I'm traveling throughout the world,
giving workshops about how to turn this dream into reality.
And I see that, no matter where I go,
even to Japan, where the books are not yet
available in the Japanese language,
people can relate to the essence of their messages.
And people are crying and laughing.
And I presented even a talk at Dance Academy in Japan.
Professional dancers.
Two months later, I received an email from them,
with them dancing on a potato planting.
They're planting they're dikons and vegetables.
So it's amazing how these simple messages
are returning, are regaining this joy of
living, not through some kind of special practices,
but through your everyday life.
They're really catching on,
and there's so many people writing to me
how it's really changing them on some very deep level.
Yes.
And gives meaning to their everyday existence.
It brings a type of beauty, enchantment,
and definitely sovereignty back to the
living experience.
And I'm very happy to hear that,
that's still really going strong, globally.
Because it seems to me, that this is just the
beginning of what our futures will be looking like.
This has to be a serious model for the future.
And anyone who hasn't read it, I highly
encourage them to read all nine of the books.
As I've encouraged many, many friends and relatives
to read the series, and everyone comes
away with the same feeling.
I don't know any other way to put it,
but it's a very material, real kind of
enchanted way of viewing our own lives.
True, and you know, may people use the term, remembrance.
Yes, remembrance.
You read it,
and it's not that you get these concepts from the books,
rather all of a sudden you start feeling,
ah, this is how life should be, this is-
Why didn't I think of that, it's so true!
So it is.
Exactly.
These books are, they help people draw some of
the memories, some of the inspiration from
the depth of their own being.
Very, very true.
Well I'm glad that's still out there
and in motion, and you're in motion, constantly.
Because when you find something that has value,
you really commit yourself passionately to that.
And now, you are working with yet another project,
a couple of projects, both of
which I'm totally intrigued with.
And this book, which is an interesting little
book called The Art of Soaring.
And we're going to get into what that is in just a moment.
Because it really has to do with awakening the
adult imagination.
And this is an incredibly challenging thing
for a lot of people to do, shockingly so.
Absolutely, but you know, even when I was
editing the Anastasia books, I realized that we will
not be able to make a lasting change if we
do not change our mindset.
You know, today we're all really locked up in the
negative perception of reality.
I do not have a TV at home, but when I travel,
I cannot escape the TV screens of CNN News at the airport.
And what I noticed, they keep
telling you about 10% unemployment.
But sorry, 10% unemployment is 90% employment.
So not all our civilization is about their conditioning
us to see the negative side of things.
So I felt that unless we switch our mind from
this negative perception to the positive one,
we won't be able really, to change anything for the better.
So this is the very logical
No, you're right.
first step.
You're absolutely right.
And these world views that we each have, we each possess,
start in utero.
We're talking, well one might say they start prior to that.
But certainly from our conception
and to the point where we are cognizant
on an energetic level, we're already
being programmed just like a computer,
to accept and reject certain, maybe certain practices,
certain people, certain taste.
Percubitus for all kinds of things.
Each thing, narrowing down our potential of experience
and completely thwarting the imagination.
So let's talk about what the Art of Soaring is,
so we can understand, so our viewers can understand
why the imagination is so key to
bringing ourselves back alive again,
and our potential.
You know, after translating the Anastasia books,
I thought I was done with editing and translating.
I thought I would just retire to
my family farm put in pressure.
And the rest of my life to raising my family
and planting my vegetables.
But I was faces with some very dramatic controversy.
And the conflict in my professional life.
And I was looking for solutions, how to
overcome all this feeling of frustration and negativity.
And I came across this book, The Art of Soaring,
that is about changing our reality
through changing our inner world.
But through laughter, through humor, playfully.
You know, the concept that we are
really the creators of our reality.
It is very popular today, it's almost
too commonplace to talk about it.
But what I noticed for many people,
it becomes so serious.
They create out of resolving problems,
with their own thought, another problem.
They're just, all tense, all serious about it.
Don't want to make the karma any worse.
I have to get on top of this,
I need discipline,
Yeah, absolutely.
I have to meditate.
Too many have-to's.
And it turns out in Russia, there was
an ancient tradition, and an ancient teaching
about how to overcome our problems,
issues, conflicts, violence, negativity, through laughter.
Because laughter is this amazing energy that
just releases all the tension, and all of sudden,
things that you thought were impossible,
become at your arm's reach.
Yes.
So this is what the Art of Soaring is about.
This book gives a series of very simple techniques,
of how to turn what you think is
an impossible challenge, into a joke.
And when it becomes a joke, you can no longer
be serious about it.
an instead of channeling all your animental energy,
into maintaining the image of it
as a serious issue,
all this energy's freed up, and all of a sudden
the problem disappears, or at least you can
use all this energy on resolving the problem
rather than worrying about it.
Yes.
And I had a friend who was a mentor of mine,
and like a second mother to me
who is from Russia, pre Bolshevik revolution,
hoofed it out on foot with her mother as a matter of fact,
and she kept telling me, this was during,
this was before the wall came down.
And this would'a been in the 70s and 80s,
and she kept saying to me, people in the west
don't understand, the Russian heart and soul
is filled with an acceptance, and a living in magic
and artistry, beyond what the outside world
really comprehends, because it was
at that time very cloistered during the communist years.
I can't agree more.
And you know, it's amazing because,
during the 1000 years of our recent history,
Russia was constantly in war, or slavery.
And people could not attach themselves
to their material possessions, like here in the west.
Because those could be taken away from them
at any moment.
They couldn't even attach themselves to their families,
because even wives and daughters could be
take away to satisfy the inclinations
of the landlord at any moment.
They couldn't even attach themselves to their own lives,
because their lives could be taken away from them
at any moment.
So, you know, they had to attach themselves
to something else, to their inner essence.
And they came up with this amazing way
of transcending all this suffering
through laughter, through humor.
By not even being serious about
all these extremely traumatizing experiences
that the Russian people had been put through
century, after century, after century.
Yes, and it does, it makes it for a very interesting mind.
I always noticed with my Russian friends,
there is so much silliness,
silliness in the conversation, fun.
Joyful ways of portraying things that it just doesn't occur
to most minds to even come up with.
And so I say that, because when you
first start reading, when I first started reading
The Art of Soaring, and I always thought
well I'm pretty creative, I'm kind of loose
in that sense, I can flow with it.
But even so, when being posed with having to create
something to the point of extravagance
and absurdity, our minds have been narrowed
by our world views so much, it's hard to
access, like what would I,
if I could just use my mind as a pallet?
How would I create this situation?
And so, can you talk to that for a little bit,
about what we're up against, because of our
world view being so well entrenched,
all of us, everywhere in the world.
Yeah, you know, we have this mental block.
We think, well silliness and playfulness
and imagination, it's only for children.
And we adults, we are really like serious people.
And we have our mortgage bills to worry about,
we have our jobs, our social status, etcetera.
So you don't see an adult climbing up in the tree
or like now, doing something the cilldren
do and enjoy doing, not because we
wouldn't enjoy it, actually i climbed
a tree a week ago, it was so much fun.
Yes!
But because we created the mental image
of it as not being appropriate.
So we lock ourselves up, and with it,
we lock up these abilities of seeing
human laughter and lightness, even in
conflict and adversity.
You know what, I noticed even in nature,
nature never looks back at darkness.
In the morning after the darkness of the night,
after all the dangers of the night,
and being eaten up, the birds start singing,
instead of sitting there, serious and worrying
about all the dangers they just-
The next night, it's going to come.
Yeah, the next night!
And then another.
Let's build a little fortress.
So instead of that, they're looking
forward to the coming of the sun.
So The Art of Soaring is about
reclaiming this ancient wisdom of
not looking back at darkness, but moving towards light.
And laughter is like this wave that carry's you
into this new, really new existence in your
mindset where everything is possible.
And the men that have written this book,
Dolakov and Garongov, I don't know if I said that correctly.
You said it correct.
Garongov, okay.
These two men are, what would be termed in Russia
as magicians.
Now, here we might call them like,
very wise, artful healers.
But talk about the difference between that,
and the way that, for example,
I love the way, I've forgotten which one of the two men
starts their day.
When they were talking about going in to the water,
and doing a dance, starting to take in intuitively.
What's going to be coming up that day.
What defines a magician?
So, a magician, as defined in The Art of Soaring,
is not somebody, no, all mysterious,
or who is able to produce all kind of tricks.
Rather, it is somebody who is soaring,
who is light in his inner being.
Who is playful in life.
So the authors, they're just ordinary people.
They are not gurus.
They don't call themselves teachers.
They are just ordinary people who figured
out that there is this way, and there is
this ancient teaching that they rediscovered,
for transcending all controversy in our life,
through humor.
So, there they start with laughter, with humor.
And there, I was intrigued by this book
and it helped me a lot, to redefine
how I saw controversy and darkness in problems in my life.
But actually before committing to translating
this book, and making it available,
in the English language, I really wanted
also to see whether the approach really worked.
The book contains theoretical sections.
The discussion of the principles.
Yes.
Why these light hearted playful approach, really works.
And the second part of the book is the real
life success stories of the people
who started applying these techniques.
So I wanted to see on my own experience
whether it held any truth to it, and it worked.
It did work.
And you went through the entire process?
Yeah, can I give you an example?
Yes, please do.
So one of the techniques presented in the books
are if you come across conflict or some darkness,
find something positive within the negative,
and exaggerate it to such an extreme
that it will become laughable.
Yes.
And when you arrive at this image that made you laugh
instead of cringing inside, stick to this image
in your inner side, and the problem will disappear.
So this is how it worked for me.
At that time I was in a rural place in Missouri.
And there, and my place was not accessible by large trucks.
So whenever I had a delivery of furniture
or another big piece, I needed to go to an intersection
of two rural highways where there was a
parking spot where the big truck would park.
And I would unload it on my car and take it home.
So this parking space was surrounded by grass, by a lawn.
And it was private property already,
but it was not demarcated.
So you couldn't tell really, where the public parking space,
and when the private property began.
And the owner of the lawn lived across the road,
and owned a convenience store.
So, because I am a foreigner,
or in the legal sense, an alien.
And I have an accent, and you know, in rural Missouri,
people are very conservative, they do not like
anybody who is different.
So he was singling me out.
So whenever a truck was coming to deliver something for me,
and some times going with the rear wheel
of the truck over his grass, he would jump out of his
convenience store and start yelling at us across the road.
"You guys get off my land!"
And one time he even called 911,
saying that there are some aliens who are
trespassing on his property.
So sheriffs came.
So now, because of this outburst of anger against me,
I started feeling very tense every time I had
a deliver of a few boxes or something coming my way.
And it's one thing to have a personal relationship issue,
it's another not to sleep well
when you're expecting it literally, right.
Or even driving by his
Right!
convenience store, I will always fell, augh!
So I needed to do something about it.
And I noticed that he enjoyed greatly, his social status.
He had a massive golden ring, with a precious stone.
And his convenience store was sort of a community center.
All the real men from the community
would come in the evening to play dominoes there.
And he would stay behind the counter
and put his hand with this massive golden
ring on top of the counter, and watch the game.
So I started playing out in my imagination
this absent scenario.
So there is this game of dominoes happening one evening.
And at the very decisive moment,
he comes forward and takes out of his pocket
a six, six, domino stone, and then starts
spinning in his hand, until it's the size of this room.
Like this huge pallet.
And then he puts it crashing down, on the table.
The table collapses, and he wins the game.
And all the players look up at him in amazement and awe.
And from this point onwards, this legend starts
circulating, and this rumor that he's
the best domino player in the world.
So people from all over America start coming to
his convenience store to learn domino playing from the man.
And then people from all over the world start coming
and they build an international airport
close to this rural intersection in Missouri.
And direct flights from New York, Tokyo, Moscow,
from all over the world, landing like-
This is the lavish absurd part, I love it.
And he builds bigger domino playing academy
of the world, a marble, white building, a skyscraper
with the six, six domino on top of it.
So now, when I arrived at this absurd image,
I laughed, I could no longer be serious.
And all of a sudden, I felt all this tension falling away.
You know what happened, not a single time
ever since, has he even walked out of
his convenience store when my trucks were coming.
They continued coming regularly,
but the problem just dissolved.
For some time I was even concerned whether
he was alive or not, because he just,
He wasn't threatening you.
He wasn't there,
he disappeared pretty much.
but one time I saw him riding a mower, mowing his lawn.
So I know he is alright, he is well.
But his attitude, his anger, all this conflict
all of a sudden disappeared, just because
through laughter, through humor, through
playing this technique from The Art of Soaring.
I dissolved the conflict within myself,
and saw it dissolving in my real life.
I find it just beautiful, a beautiful way to do it.
So much better than thinking, oh well,
we have to have a talk, and that way that
usually does not work, because
it hasn't resolved anything in your field.
It hasn't resolved anything in their field.
But what's so cool about it, is that
at the same time, you are feeding him
the thing that he most desires.
Oh, absolutely.
He wants to be honored.
He wants to feel in control of his own life.
And you created this quantum field of absolute
honoring in abundance for him.
And this is that gifting thing, right?
True.
Even to the point where it's an absurd cartoon.
But nonetheless, that's a lot of supportive
incoming energy, even though you're doing it
to release your own tension, right?
Absolutely, and you know, it works for anybody.
I started sharing these techniques with people
here in America, and of course that
many people already read The Art of Soaring.
So now I receive a flow of funny stories like that,
when something magical happened just because
people changed their attitude within.
In the book it's called renaming.
Yes.
You know, we lock ourselves up in a particular
view of who we are.
I'm a nurse, or I'm a husband,
or I'm this or I'm that.
I am the one who can never earn enough money.
Or I am the one who has this relationship issue.
Or I am the one who, etcetera, etcetera.
So we create an image.
I am this, I am that.
So the authors playfully suggest that one of
the techniques is, instead of saying,
oh I am the woman who's girlfriend is cheating one me,
you rename yourself, well I am you know,
I am a crocodile made out of sweet peas with
two yellow dandelions, instead of my eyes.
Yes.
Like, whatever your wildest imagination can show you.
And all of a sudden you notice, that the problem disappears.
Just yesterday I shared this technique here
with one of the attendees of my workshop.
And she came the next day and told me,
you know what, we had our house
on the market for six months, not a single showing.
Last night I came up to talking with you
and conveyed this technique to my husband,
and we laughed, and then went to this vision
that eventually the house will be
purchased by aliens, extraterrestrials,
and they will turn the subdivision laws here in Los Angeles
into portals for communicating with other galaxies.
So I know it was so absurd, that they all
laughed, and all this tension of not
being able to sell the house disappeared.
The next morning they got a phone call from
their real estate agent, that somebody
wanted to look at their property.
Yes.
Stories like that, keep piling up.
And they're always funny, and they're always
about how all of a sudden, these concepts
of changing your reality, through changing your inner world
become accessible to everybody.
Because laughter and human imagination
is something that everybody can relate to.
It's very true, and when you think about it,
it's often been said that when you want something,
or you want to draw something to yourself,
you have to let it go, right.
And so in a sense, although that's very candor almost,
in the way it's presented, there's, again
it has the same common theme that you're releasing
this painful kind of attachment,
this painful kind of expectation,
that human beings tend to hold on to,
in order to achieve an outcome.
I've just got to grind away at it.
Meaning, I have to work hard to get what I want.
That's another world view though.
Sure.
And this is the term that they use a lot
in The Art of Soaring book, world view.
You know, we think that the way we
see the world, is the world.
But no, it's like we can be changing our operating system,
and changing our glasses, and seeing the world
in all the different lights and colors, etcetera.
So it's really, matter of our choice.
This is the amazing part of the book.
That is made you laugh and realize that
there is no insolvable problems,
that there are no missions impossible,
that we are in charge of our own destiny,
and we are always making the
choice of what we want to manifest.
So, if you say, oh I cannot do it.
The circumstances are so dire, that I will be miserable
for the rest of my life, well it's your choice.
You are choosing to see yourself this way.
And this is the reality that you choose for yourself.
But these books of The Art of Soaring, the sequels that I am
now working on, they're all about giving this understanding,
that we all are the creators of our destiny,
and we all have the choices.
But it's done in so much more
powerful and beautiful a way, than what
we traditionally experience, looking, especially those
who come through the scientific model
of creating your own reality.
It's getting in to holographic realities,
and really you're talking about scientific parlance,
which is very valuable.
It's wonderful that these mysteries, this magic,
has essentially been unlocked and explained on
certain levels, how we can
create this reality, scientifically.
But that doesn't unlock our emotional charges
that we walk around with.
It does not, and actually now today,
scientists are, I think they forgot that even Einstein
was saying that imagination is
more important than knowledge.
Yes.
Can you believe, he felt that imagination,
and we all know that the greatest scientific discoveries
become not through initializing, but in a flash,
in a flash of inspiration,
in a flash of awareness or insight.
So imagination has such an important role to play
even in science itself.
Yes.
I have a doctoral degree, I have PHD,
but it doesn't prevent me from seeing that
you know, science is a tool.
It is just one of the tools to do
certain things in our reality.
But it's not all of reality.
It's not the whole range of the tools that we can use.
Arts and the imaginations, it's all that's accessible
to everybody.
You know, the irony of it is, that we all have
imagination within ourselves.
But today, we have persuaded ourselves
that only special people have imagination.
The artist, they are the imagine,
they, or those who make movies.
So these are the people who can create
all this imagery, and we are just the consumers
of their imaginations.
No, read the other story, try just one of the
techniques, and you will see it,
that you can create a more fascinating,
movie within your own mind, than anything
you've ever seen on screen.
It's very true.
I kept practicing it, as I was reading.
I thought, dude this is really fun,
just to give yourself permission even,
to become zany and insane in
the way you're creating this world,
this abundant world of whatever it is.
Whether it's peace, joy, happiness, health, what not.
True, and you know, these techniques can be used to
resolve any kind of issues, even health issues.
I was just going to ask you.
Tell us about that.
Yeah, so you know, what is the health issue?
Today we have an approach that
health issue, or depression.
So, some kind of disease of the flesh, or of our spirit,
it's our enemy.
We need to fight against it.
So, surgery, or pain killers, anti-depressants.
This is the solution.
So we are fighting with the consequence,
not with the real cause.
But in the ancient world view, from which
The Art of Soaring emerged,
they were seeing a depression, the feeling
that well, something is wrong,
as not a disease, but as a signal
that something is wrong with your lifestyle,
with your world outlook, with your
relationship to other world,
with your diet, with something.
So it was seen as a signal as an invitation
to transcend this depressional bodily condition,
and to move forward to the health existence.
So instead of taking pain killers, or anti-depressants,
The Art of Soaring shows some very efficient
techniques of actually thanking,
thanking this disease, or thanking this feeling
of depression for coming to you,
and reminding you that there-
Maybe you've gone out of balance.
Exactly
Yeah.
And so this very simple technique,
is to thank and to give your depression a gift.
So, dear mister depression, thank you very much
for spending so much of your valuable time with me.
So I thank you profusely, and I give you this gift.
And imagine something that would make you love inside.
And people come up with all kinds of
like, imagery.
One lady, she was struggling with depression,
and she wrote me, she wrote a small poem, a song.
And the song was, I'm a pregnant Barbie doll.
So she gave her depression this gift, a CD produced
with her song, I'm a pregnant Barbie doll,
flying on a hairy balloon.
So I thought, what, there it is.
But this released her tension, and she saw
that where anti-depressants could do nothing,
all of a sudden, in a flash, in five minutes,
she resolved the whole issue on it's own within herself.
It's just beautiful.
Now one of the things he was talking about in the book,
is they're still in the theoretical stage, setting it up.
They used the analogy of gamer, a video gamer.
And I thought that was quite interesting,
because he was talking about that really
rarefied strata of video gamers who are are called divers.
You remember that part?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And he's talking about
Who can be totally immersed
in the game, yet remember somewhere
in their subconscious that it is still a game.
It's still a game, and this is the,
this is really what a lot of the lovely
eastern philosophies talk about,
of being the one who observes being aware,
being the awareness at the same
time you're involved in the dance, so to speak.
And they talk about, this is an important element
to have almost a,
it's not a dual type of awareness,
but in this expanded awareness,
while you're playing the game,
and that helps in not taking things so seriously as well.
True, and you know I feel today with our
computer technology, we start seeing
all kind of parallels between how
computers work, and how our minds are bred.
Yes.
Look, computers have viruses,
and they can become sick, and they can have
hard drive failure, on all these things
that we can suffer from too.
And this parallel with the computer world
starts helping to remind people
that we can become our own programmers.
Instead of buying an operating system
from some software manufacturing company,
and being.
Pre-programmed.
Hell yeah, pre-programmed, and then having
to download security patches,
and everything on a daily basis,
we can become creators of our own
operative system, we can rise above the problem,
the social conditioning, that when we went through
and outlines we can become the creators of our reality.
Actually, you know I have a friend who
has a PHD in biology, and he has been studying
the cognitive abilities of mammals.
And one day he asked me, Leo, do you know
what's the difference between a rat and a human being?
I said, you know, I never really thought about it,
but now that you ask, I'm not really sure.
And he's like, I'll tell you.
Here's the difference.
He was making a larger cardboard maze.
And he would put a rat inside this maze,
and he would hide a piece of cheese in one corner.
And he would see how much time it would take the rat
to find this cheese.
So on the first day, it takes 15 seconds.
On the second day, and he puts it
in the same corner.
It takes 10 seconds.
On the third day, it takes just five seconds,
because the rat starts to remember,
this is the path to the cheese, and just rushes there.
On the fourth day, he would place the piece of cheese in
a different corner of the maze.
So the rat would rush to the corner where
the cheese was the previous night.
Cannot find the cheese, all dumbfounded.
But then, five seconds later, becomes active,
and searching, and looking for the cheese,
eventually finds this piece of cheese, and there it eats it.
So he told me, here is the difference
between a rat and a human being.
When the rat doesn't come, the cheese where it used to be,
where it was the previous night,
it becomes active, it does something about it.
And humans seem to be the only creatures
on the planet, who after not find a piece of
cheese where it used to be, they will be
just sitting there, and complaining.
And inventing entire religious theories
about how they transgressed in previous lives,
and this is why the cheese was taken away from them.
So this is what he's inside, that had got from
observing the behavior of mice and rats.
They do not have this kind of programming.
They are open minded.
No cheese, not a big deal, I'll find it elsewhere.
And we are overlaying the reality,
what really is in the world, in our experience.
We're adding so much of our own ideas
to it, that it becomes really a jungle.
We cannot find our way
through it.
Yes.
So The Art of Soaring is this amazing technique
of rising above the jungle, and seeing,
aha, this is where I was going, this is what
reality is really all about.
Yes, and they even talk about there.
Where you were just saying
oh I have to rise above.
They even talk about the subject of karma in this book.
True.
But it's not the way we would think of it,
as something you have to pay a penance for,
grinding through, or something in much of the
parlance that exists right now.
They're talking about it in a much more light hearted way.
Can you talk about their view of karma?
Absolutely.
And dealing with it.
Mm, hmm.
You know, and the amazing part is,
that what they're talking about, is not new.
They are referring to some ancient parables, etcetera,
that show that even our ancestors knew
that there are ways of overcoming karma,
or overcoming all kinds of problems, light heartedly.
For example, they give an example of
an ancient story when a man was, a peasant was
making love to a neighbor's wife,
and so the Shiva God, passing on,
passing by, and asked, oh Shiva,
tell me how many more inclinations do I
have in this flesh?
And he said, well you have ten inclinations left.
And he was overjoyed that it was
just ten inclinations left of suffering,
that he become enlightened the same moment.
So here is an ancient story here, that conveys
the understanding that we we're not locked up in our karma.
So they have the same approach.
If you seriously believe in karma,
you keep maintaining your karma with the energy
of your thought.
Yeah.
You are creating your karma,
you are giving it the existence by
believing that, yeah, I need to work with it,
I need to be good, I have like that many more
life times to go.
So you are all locked up, but you are your own prisoner.
And they present all this beautiful,
light hearted approaches, of how you realize,
that yes, karma is just one operating system.
It's one world view, it's one image.
But I'm the one who is in charge
of all the movies played in this theater.
So why don't I play another movie,
where I can just resolve all my karmic
There you go, it's a choice.
circumstances
in five minutes.
Yeah.
There it is.
Oh, it's beautiful.
Well, I like that so much better.
What about the notion of becoming a healer?
Because they talk to the person that's reading this,
that really wants to be a part of the journey of others
in going through this healing process.
And yet we judge ourselves for that.
Oh, I don't know that it was really me
that really had that effect and so forth.
How did you perceive that?
Yeah, talking about healers,
you know what I like also about
The Art of Soaring book, is that the authors
are not serious about anything, including themselves.
Yes.
They do not present themselves as someone special,
someone who knew the way, and now is
enlightened past the ignorant, or people.
No, they are very light hearted, they are playful,
and where the healing, they practicing healing themselves,
they are healers, they help people overcome
bodily disease, and all kinds of life challenges
through the techniques described in The Art of Soaring.
But they explain that, you know,
we in this world, we tend to rely on
somebody else for everything.
Somebody else is raising our children
and giving then education.
Somebody's growing our food.
Somebody's building our home.
Somebody, even in the spiritual realm,
we have somebody who is enlightening us.
Somebody who is healing us, somebody who is saving us.
And they remind us that we can all
become our own healers, and actually the reason why
we can be healed so easily, if we come to a healer
who has this power, is because we have
the faith in the healer.
We have the faith that this particular person
can finally help us, where everybody else failed.
And your faith in this person is what heals you.
Yes.
Most and foremost.
So instead of relying on somebody else
for your fulfillment, they say,
well if you have as much faith in yourself,
in your abilities, in your imagination,
as you have in somebody else's
this will be your healing, instantaneously.
Absolutely, and in the western medical model,
oh no, double blank study, that was just a placebo affect.
Yippie!
Isn't that great news?
Yeah.
You know, we all have that capability on our own.
You don't need the drug, you don't need the doctor.
You don't need the intervention.
In most cases, in many cases certainly.
So they really approach it from
the ground level of your own, internal belief system,
that's what healing is about.
True, and again, we are not just talking about
the bodily healing, we are talking about
healing our relationships, and money problems.
I know, one of the ladies tried this technique.
She was struggling with her mortgage bills.
And then she played out this negative scenario.
So now the technique described in The Art of Soaring,
instead of struggling with an issue,
release it and play out in your mind,
the most negative scenario you can think of
until it becomes absurd.
So she imagined that she will become bankrupt,
and will be thrown out of her home,
with no possessions or anything.
So she will spend the rest of her life,
living under the bridge in Chicago.
Under a bridge.
And policing the sidewalks looking for
a banana skin to chew on.
And she created this amazing vision
where she will collect all banana skins in the world
to subsist on.
And then even extraterrestrials will be
sending the space ships in the form of bananas
filled with banana skins for her to chew on.
So when she arrived at this vision,
this absolute comical, or exaggerated parable,
she could no longer be serious about the bills
that come in the mail.
And she explained that like, the problem disappeared.
All of a sudden, her money situation improved,
just because instead of sitting there and worrying,
and seeing herself as a victim who will be
struggling with her bills for the rest of her life,
all of a sudden she changed her perception of herself.
As it says in the book, she renamed herself.
Instead of saying, I am the one who has
mortgage payment problems, she told,
I am the one who is receiving food aid
of banana skins from aliens.
And you know, because the one who is receiving
food aid of banana skins from aliens
certainly cannot have any mortgage bill problems, right?
So the problem disappeared on its own.
I love it.
And the book is filled with with that.
Really, the second it happens, nothing but will.
The two thirds of it is nothing but this kind of story.
I mean not that one, but a lot of stories like this.
So you can see, it gives you a nice portrait of
someone who comes in with a lot of complex issues.
There's one man in here in particular.
How one of the authors worked with him,
little bit at a time, to just allow the tension
to be released in one little area,
with one little remembrance.
And then renaming, and then this
thanksgiving process.
And so we're, until they wound down to the very base
of what was, had really happened in his life,
and this rediscovery and re-framing of it.
And his, essentially everything else healed.
The whole thing, the whole mechanism
his whole being healed.
Yeah, absolutely.
And you know, what I also noticed,
just by observing even my children,
I noticed that they know this Art of Soaring
without reading this book.
They all have this playful attitude.
And she finds me doing that,
and asks, daddy, what are you doing?
I said, well I saw your doll broke,
and so I'm trying to see how I can fix it.
And she said, yeah my little sister broke it.
But you don't have to fix it, she says.
I said why?
And she showed me this.
She said, daddy, because it's not a Barbie doll.
She did like, it's a giraffe.
And not only that, she told me,
daddy, it was always a giraffe, not a Barbie doll.
Only, the head was attached to the wrong place.
So I know, it's this art of seeing a giraffe
Look at that.
where everybody else would see a broken Barbie doll.
I love it.
And our children have that.
It's just inbuilt in our being,
the moment we are born.
So The Art of Soaring is not about
the discovering a new system, a new philosophy.
It's about reclaiming this pristine purity of perception
that we are all born with.
Reclaiming our own fairy tale.
Yeah.
That is beautiful.
Well, on that note, I think it's best if
everybody just, that's interested, just pick up a copy
of the book.
Where can they get this?
Where's The Art of Soaring?
They can get it on
the deepsnowpress.com website.
deepsnowpress.com.
Okay.
On the publisher's website.
deepshowpress.com.
Okay, how long has this been available to the English
speaking audience?
Two months.
Two months, brand new, whoah.
Yes, I'm one of the first, I love it.
Okay, well Leonid, it's so wonderful
to talk about this with you.
And also, another thing that you're getting
ready to involve yourself with, which I've been
fascinated with, very much since we've first met,
is the school in Russia, which is really.
I mean, I'm so enthralled with the notion where
the children create the curriculum.
The children build the facilities,
and supply all of the artwork for the place.
And work with gardens and learn movement
that we have long lost in our beings.
And this beautiful environment.
You said again, Tekos?
The Tekos School?
The Teckos School in southern Russia.
And you're going, when you go back to Russia,
you're going to be involved in this.
And I don't I shouldn't make promises,
I might not be able to keep, but our intention
right now, is in a few months when we go there,
you and I, and Scott are going to hook up together,
and we're going to go to the school,
and we're going to talk with the headmaster
and some of the students.
Yeah, I very much look forward to it.
Because I visited this school myself,
with my daughter a few months ago.
And it's literally like entering the fourth dimension.
Yes.
Because it's not even just about the children there.
It's about what they manifest as their abilities.
They remind us all that we have all this infant abilities.
The children have designed, built,
and created their own campus.
They do it free hand.
All this amazing murals you see
there in the school, the creation.
They were not even traced with a pencil on the wall,
because it's an understanding of the principle,
that if you tell the child, oh you need first
to practice, it conveys your skepticism.
You believe that oh, the child is not
capable of doing it freehand.
So instead, the principal is giving them
the brushes, says do it.
It's beautiful.
Like, create it.
And because he has this faith in education
being, not stuffing children's heads with information,
but rather creating an environment
in which they can blossom and draw out all
this creativity, and powers and abilities
that we are all born with.
So they were able to create this very magic space.
And the guy believed, it will redefine
the way we see education, and the way we raise our children,
the world over.
I felt that way, just watching the DVD of it.
Even being removed
and connected by say technology,
You can feel the essence of that coming through.
We're going to set our intention
to do everything we can to be there with you.
Yeah, thank you Regina, thank you Scott,
and yeah I would like to reach everybody
who is watching this broadcast.
Happy Soaring!
(laughs)
For those of you who would like to purchase
a copy of The Art of Soaring,
you can go to deepsnowpress.com
and imagine your way to a much
more satisfying life experience.
Meanwhile, you might also be interested in our first
interview with Leonid, regarding the story of
Anastasia, another beautiful and profound view
of the potential of the human being.
Until next time, than you for watching CMN.
(calm music)